Add docker-compose.yml abstraction and Dockerfile comments (#2343)
fedspendingtransparency/usaspending-website: README.md

* You have git installed on your machine and are able to clone code repositories from GitHub. If this isn't the case, the easiest way to get started is to install [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/ "GitHub desktop"), available for Windows or Mac.
* You're familiar with opening a terminal on your machine and using the command line as needed.

### Installation
_Get the code and install the runtime and dependencies_

> 1. If you're not already running Node.js, download and run the installer for your operating system. We build using **Node.js 10.15.3 (LTS)** which we recommend downloading using [Node Version Manager (nvm)](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm).

Reviewer: we're actually now using `12.18.4`

Author: I didn't change the version docs but can to be consistent, and make sure it matches node version used the dockerfile.

> 2. You also need the Node Package Manager (`npm`) CLI. We use version `6.14.5`.

Reviewer 2: Node install comes with npm. At one point we needed to install a higher version of npm due the node version we were running but since we moved to 12 this step is not needed and we can delete this.

    ```shell
    npm i -g npm@6.14.5
    ```
3. From the command line, clone the USAspending website repository from GitHub to your local machine:

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/fedspendingtransparency/usaspending-website.git
    ```
4. Change to the `usaspending-website` directory that was created when you cloned the USAspending Website repository.

    ```shell
    cd usaspending-website
    ```

5. Perform a clean install to get an exact dependency tree:

    ```shell
    npm ci
    ```

### Configuration
_Alter configuration to non-default values by changing environment variable values._

> Our application makes use of of certain environment varialbes. The important ones are listed below along with their default values:

Reviewer 2: variables

> Several `npm` scripts including webpack bundling of static USAspending website artifacts require environment variables to be defined at script-time, so that their values can be used in script logic or injected into static artifacts. The important ones are listed below along with their default values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our application makes use of of certain environment varialbes. The important ones are listed below along with their default values:
```

| ENV VAR           | DEFAULT VALUE (if not set)       | PURPOSE 
|-------------------|----------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| `ENV`             | dev                              | Determine bundling optimizations and feature flags | 
| `USASPENDING_API` | https://api.usaspending.gov/api/ | API URL to get backend data                        |
| `MAPBOX_TOKEN`    | ''                               | Product key for use of MapBox features             |

> | `GA_TRACKING_ID`  | ''                               | Google Analytics key for tracking usage in prod    |

Reviewer: We also track usage in DEV FWIW

Author: I might just leave off the env. Didn't want people to think that if they use this website locally, they're being "tracked".

> These values can be set in one of 3 methods:

Reviewer: While this is helpful I dont see how it's really relevant to our README. I think it's a fair assumption to make that folks know how to set environment variables. Hoping to keep this document as concise as possible.

Reviewer: Also, I think our readme should be divided as follows:

Install and Configuration: ...
Build with Docker: ...

Author: I can work on slimming it down. But something _should_ be stated about how you set the env vars to change from the default values. E.g. if we change `ENV` to default to `prod`, developers should have an example of how that can be changed to `dev` to support local development.

1. In a git-ignored `.env` file, if using `docker` or `docker-compose` to execute scripts 

    ```bash
    # .env file
    USAPENDING_API=http://localhost:8000/api
    # ... next var
    ```
    - Confirm Docker Compose picks up vars by running: `docker-compose config` to see the values applied
    - Also can be applied with `docker run --env-file .env ...`
    - _NOTE: Default env var values are set in the `Dockerfile` and will be used in `docker run` if none are provided_

> 2. Using `export` to set them in the current executing shell environment.

Reviewer: This should be #1. As a front end developer, we dont use docker. Our app isn't configured to respect the .env file. This is a docker thing.

Author: I can change. It changes the statement about precedent, but we'll be moving that out anyway.

    ```bash
    $ export USAPENDING_API=http://localhost:8000/api

>     $ npm dev

Reviewer: If we're just talking about setting ENV variables, which it appears we are, we should remove the `npm dev` statements from these code snippets.

Author: This implies that once the env var is set, the npm script run will _look_ for it. 
I could change to 
    ```bash
    $ export USAPENDING_API=http://localhost:8000/api
    $ # run npm script here that uses this env var
    ```
    
Or just get rid of it. Consider junior developers (on or off this project) trying to get this open source project to run.

- If you build or run `npm` scripts on your local desktop development environment with the `npm` CLI, or switch between this and Docker, setting up your shell with `export` (or a tool like `direnv`) is most flexible. 
- If you only run scripts/builds in Docker or Docker Compose, using a `.env` file is a simple, clean, config-file-driven approach 

### Scripts
_Custom and life-cycle scripts to execute, as defined under the `scripts` property in `package.json`_

| Script       | Output                                                      |
|--------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| `npm start`  | dev server with hot reloading                               |
| `npm prod`   | generates static assets w/ production optimization          |
| `npm dev`    | generates static assets w/ development optimization         |
| `npm lint`   | executes linter                                             |
| `npm test`   | executes unit tests                                         |
| `npm sass`   | dev server w/ scss source maps                              |
| `npm travis` | executes travis validation script                           |

> | `npm ci`     | clean existing Node dependencies and install dependencies   |

Reviewer 2: This should be removed. This is not part of our scripts.

> ### Bundling and Deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Building the App with Docker
```

Reviewer: All docker specific stuff should be pigeon-holed here so not as to confuse the majority of readers who I'm assuming are not using it.

Author: I'll take your point about making this a frontend-developer oriented document, and that it is recommended they just run npm and node on their desktop. 

But there are many technical folks (ops people, backend devs) that may want to run the website and not have to go through all the trouble of cluttering their system with node, npm, and node modules. So Docker provides that clean and isolated environment to run this. 

I'll try to tuck it all in that section.

_Bundling and running the website_

> To keep a clean workspace, our CI/CD pipelines use Docker to gather Node dependencies, bundle artifacts, and deploy them. Developers can similarly do this in their local development environments to reduce tool install/versioning and dependency management.

Reviewer: Again this is helpful but I don't think it's necessary for our readme.

To run the website _**locally**_ with pre-bundled artifacts, first download NPM packages, then generate and bundle static artifacts, then run an `nginx` container to host them. You can do this all in _one step_ with just:
```bash
docker-compose build && docker-compose run --rm bundle-usaspending-website && docker-compose up usaspending-website
``` 
- _The first two steps can take 5+ minutes each, so this could be a total of ~10 minutes before ready._

To do this in individual, sequential steps, from the `usaspending-website` source root:
1. Ensure your `usaspending-website` Docker image has the latest dependencies:

    ```bash

>     docker-compose build

Reviewer: can we just use docker build here instead of compose? It might be useful to distinguish between:

(a) docker-compose workflow (one step, as defined above) and 
(b) docker run work flow (multiple steps)

Please correct me if I'm wrong wrong about this but it seems each step below could just as well use docker run... rather than docker-compose...?

Author: But that's the gist of this PR ... to get rid of those low-level details:
> Favoring hiding away docker specifics (ports, volumes, env vars) into a docker-compose.yml file for easier use

Using `docker-compose` makes the commands much simpler and hides away
- the volume for getting source files
- the ports inside and outside the container
- the name of the image 
- the volume for mounting artifacts to nginx
- the version of nginx to use
- the fact we use an nginx container
- etc.
